report/approach/approach.md, before:

# Systematic Mapping Approach

A systematic mapping study (SMS) is used to provide a broad overview of a particular research area by identifying previous primary studies whose results are then categorized to create a visual summary, the map. In this paper, the systematic approach used is defined by Kitchenham et al. and later refined by Peterson et al. There are five steps to this process: definition of research questions, searching for relevant papers, screening of papers, and keywording of abstracts. We chose to use this approach because it is well-defined, allows for more general conclusions, and in doing so helps to reduce bias. We decided to go with an SMS instead of a systematic literature review (SLR) for two reasons. The first reason is because we wanted a broader overview of the field and secondly, we were more interested in general trends rather than the in-depth analysis that an SLR provides. Our goal with this paper is to identify what research has already been done with regards to design patterns and their affect on usability and reliability to determine where new or better research can take place [@kitchenhamUsingMappingStudies2011; @petersenSystematicMappingStudies2008].

!include(questions.md)

!include(sources.md)

!include(queries.md)

!include(inclusion.md)

!include(exclusion.md)

!include(quality.md)

!include(snowballing.md)

Commit message:

Added usability testing section (WIP), edited introduction to usability section, re-wrote search query and data source sections, added section for paper selection, minor spelling and grammar error fixes as well as added additional sources.

report/approach/approach.md, after:

# Systematic Mapping Approach

A systematic mapping study (SMS) is used to provide a broad overview of a particular research area by identifying previous primary studies whose results are then categorized to create a visual summary, the map. In this paper, the systematic approach used is defined by Kitchenham et al. [@kitchenhamUsingMappingStudies2011] and later refined by Peterson et al [@petersenGuidelinesConductingSystematic2015]. There are five steps to this process: definition of research questions, searching for relevant papers, screening of papers, and keywording of abstracts. We chose to use this approach because it is well-defined, allows for more general conclusions, and in doing so helps to reduce bias. We decided to go with an SMS instead of a systematic literature review (SLR) for two reasons. The first reason is because we wanted a broader overview of the field and secondly, we were more interested in general trends rather than the in-depth analysis that an SLR provides. Our goal with this paper is to identify what research has already been done with regards to design patterns and their affect on usability and reliability to determine where new or better research can take place.

!include(questions.md)

!include(sources.md)

!include(queries.md)

!include(selection.md)

!include(inclusion.md)

!include(exclusion.md)

!include(quality.md)

!include(snowballing.md)
