report/background/patterns.md, before:

## Design Patterns

In software engineering we as developers tend to encounter a lot of the same problems regardless of the actual work we do. In fact, most of the problems we as developers solve are not brand new. These common, reocurring problems are the reason that design patterns exist. Design patterns give us a repeatable solution that we can use to solve these problems. However, design patterns are not actual, concrete solutions to these problems, but rather they give us a template that we can work from in order to solve the problem. These templates allow us to incorporate best practices into our code while allowing us to focus on what really matters.

Design patterns first appeared around 1977 as an architectural concept discovered by Christopher Alexander [citation]. Close to a decade later, Beck et al began experimenting with the use of design patterns in programming. Not to long after the work done by Alexander and Beck et al. a book on design patterns was released. The book, "Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software" was published in 1994 by a group of software engineers known as the "Gang of Four" [citation - gamma, erich et al].

Commit message:

re-wrote section on design patterns, added appropriate references, unfinished.

report/background/patterns.md, after:

## Design Patterns

In software engineering, we as developers tend to encounter a lot of the same problems throughout our careers. Regardless of where we are, what we're working on or the problem we're trying to solve these issues continue to show up. They're common, reoccuring problems, and are exactly what design patterns are trying to solve. In 1977, Alexander [@alexanderPatternLanguageTowns1977], wrote a book on design patterns called "A Pattern Language". In this book, design patterns are defined as reocurring problem for which we have a common, repeatable solution that can be implemented numerous times over without ever being exactly the same. Funny enough, this book is actually about architecture in buildings and towns and not programming. This isn't the only benefit that design patterns provide however. They also give us a taxonomy in which to discuss said issues.

In 1987, following the work of Alexander, Beck et al, began working with design patterns in programming [citation]. In 1994, "Design Patterns: Elements of Reuseable Object-Oriented Software" was published by a group known as the "Gang of Four". In this book, Gamma et al. [@gammaDesignPatternsAbstraction2002] describe four essential elements of a design pattern: pattern name, problem, solution, and consequnces. The pattern name is used to describe the problem, solution, and consequnces of the design problem. The problem element tells us when its appropriate to apply the pattern. The solution element describes the design, relationships, responsibilites, and collaborations used in the pattern. Finally, consequences describe the trade-offs invovled with using the pattern.
