report/background/usability.md, before:

## Usability

Usability is a quality attribute that is used to assess the level of difficulty associated with using a product [@juristoAnalysingImpactUsability2007]. When it comes to usability we first have to understand that it isn't just one aspect of a system or even a particular characteristic of a system. It is a collection of sub-characteristics that actually make up usability. These sub-characteristics will be discussed in more detail in section 2.3.1. Usability has multiple defintions and depending on where you look, who you ask, and the context in which it is used will determine which answer you get. For example, if we look at the International Organization for Standardization, we can see that there are numerous standardizations that deal with usability: ISO 9126, ISO 9241-11, ISO/TR 16982:2202, and ISO 25010:2011.


ISO 9126 defines usability as "A set of attributes that bear on the effort needed for use, and on the individual assesment of such use, by a stated or implied set of users." [ISO 9126]. ISO 9241-11 and ISO/TR 16982:2002 define usability as the "extent to which a system, product, or service can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfation in a specified context of use." [ISO 9241-11; ISO/TR 16982:2002]. ISO 25010:2011 defines usability as "" [citation].

### Usability Quality Components

Nielsen defined five quality components that make up usability. According to Nielsen, usability is a quality attribute that assesses how difficult a user interface (UI) is to use.

- **Learnability -** Deals with the level of difficulty a user will experience when first interacting with a system to accomplish basic tasks. 
- **Efficiency -** Looks at how long it takes a user to complete a certain task once they've gained familiarity with the system.
- **Memorability -** Focuses on a users ability to return to a system after a period of time and regain efficiency using it.
- **Errors -** Looks at the frequency, severity, and recoverability of errors users make while interacting with the system. 
- **Satisfaction -** Deals with the amount of fulfillment a user gets from using the system.

[@ferreUsabilityBasicsSoftware2001] Deals with this topic

### Usability Inspection

According to Nielsen et al, usablity inspection is a set of methods where evaluators inspect a user interface (UI) to identify usability issues, severeity of issues, and the overall usability of a design. There are four basic types of usability inspection methods: automatic, empiracally, formal, and informal. Automatic usability inspection is accomplished by running a UIs specifications through a computer program. Empiracal usability inspection invovles using actual users to test the UI. Formal usability inspection is done using models and formulas to calculate a usability score. Finally, informal usability inspection is based on general guidelines and principals as well as the skill and experience of the evaluators testing the UI [@mackUsabilityInspectionMethods1994]. Next, will take a look at the actual methods involved in usability inspection.

- **Heuristic evaluation -** is an informal usability inspection method where evaluators, usability experts, independently judge a UI based on its compliance with a set of usability principles known as heuristics. This method relies solely on the skills and experience of the evaluators to find potential issues in the design.
- **Cognitive walkthroughs -** is an formal usability inspection method where evaluators, usually the developers and designers of the software, take turns role playing as users of the software to perform specific tasks while the other members evaluate and document the process for later refinement.
- **Formal usability inspections -** is a formal usability inspection method and is a combination of heuristic evaluation and the cognitive walkthough methods. It is a six step process that involves: assembling a team, assigning roles to each member, distributing appropriate documentation (design, technical, etc), giving out instructions on what is to be done, independent evaluation of the software, and finally, a discussion of issues and concerns that were identified during the process.
- **Pluralistic walkthroughs -** is an informal usability evaluation where a group of individuals, users, developers and designers, and usability experts walk through a scenario together and discuss any issues or concerns they might have. 
- **Feature inspections -** is an formal usability inspection method where a set of features used to accomplish a specific task are evaluated based on the given user story.
- **Consistency inspections -** is an informal usability inpsection method where designers from multiple projects inspect an interface based on how similiar it is to their own projects.
- **Standards inspections -** is an informal usability inspection method involving usability experts with knowledge of interface standards use their skills and experience to evaluate a UI based on its compliance with said standards.

[@nielsenHeuristicEvaluationUser1990; @mackUsabilityInspectionMethods1994].

### Usability Testing Methods



- **Hallway testing -**
- **Remote usability testing - **
- **Expert review -**
- **Automated expert review -**
- **A/B Testing -**

Commit message:

started re-writing the usability and usability quality components section.

report/background/usability.md, after:

## Usability

Usability is a quality attribute that is used to assess the level of difficulty associated with using a system [@juristoAnalysingImpactUsability2007]. Usability has been defined in multiple standards including: ISO 9126, ISO 9241-11, ISO/TR 16982:2202, and ISO 25010:2011 as well as multiple papers, articles, and books written by other usability experts. The definition were going to use in this paper is from ISO 25010:2011 which is an updated version of ISO 9126. ISO 25010:2011 defined usabilty as "". Usability can be further subdivided into subcharacteristics known as usability quality components. There are five of these subcharacteristics in total: learnability, usability, memorability, errors, and satisfaction. These will be discussed in more detail in section 2.3.1.

When most people think about usability the first thing that usually comes to mind is the user interface (UI). However, usability isn't limited to just the UI of a system. In fact, usability deals with the entire interaction betweem users and a system. A system with low usability is going to be difficult to use, hard to understand, 

ISO 9126 defines usability as "A set of attributes that bear on the effort needed for use, and on the individual assesment of such use, by a stated or implied set of users." [ISO 9126]. ISO 9241-11 and ISO/TR 16982:2002 define usability as the "extent to which a system, product, or service can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfation in a specified context of use." [ISO 9241-11; ISO/TR 16982:2002]. ISO 25010:2011 defines usability as "" [citation].

### Usability Quality Components

Nielsen defined five quality components that make up usability. According to Nielsen, usability is a quality attribute that assesses how difficult a user interface (UI) is to use.

- **Learnability -** Deals with the level of difficulty a user will experience when first interacting with a system to accomplish basic tasks. 
- **Efficiency -** Looks at how long it takes a user to complete a certain task once they've gained familiarity with the system.
- **Memorability -** Focuses on a users ability to return to a system after a period of time and regain efficiency using it.
- **Errors -** Looks at the frequency, severity, and recoverability of errors users make while interacting with the system. 
- **Satisfaction -** Deals with the amount of fulfillment a user gets from using the system.

[@ferreUsabilityBasicsSoftware2001] Deals with this topic

### Usability Inspection

According to Nielsen et al, usablity inspection is a set of methods where evaluators inspect a user interface (UI) to identify usability issues, severeity of issues, and the overall usability of a design. There are four basic types of usability inspection methods: automatic, empiracally, formal, and informal. Automatic usability inspection is accomplished by running a UIs specifications through a computer program. Empiracal usability inspection invovles using actual users to test the UI. Formal usability inspection is done using models and formulas to calculate a usability score. Finally, informal usability inspection is based on general guidelines and principals as well as the skill and experience of the evaluators testing the UI [@mackUsabilityInspectionMethods1994]. Next, will take a look at the actual methods involved in usability inspection.

- **Heuristic evaluation -** is an informal usability inspection method where evaluators, usability experts, independently judge a UI based on its compliance with a set of usability principles known as heuristics. This method relies solely on the skills and experience of the evaluators to find potential issues in the design.
- **Cognitive walkthroughs -** is an formal usability inspection method where evaluators, usually the developers and designers of the software, take turns role playing as users of the software to perform specific tasks while the other members evaluate and document the process for later refinement.
- **Formal usability inspections -** is a formal usability inspection method and is a combination of heuristic evaluation and the cognitive walkthough methods. It is a six step process that involves: assembling a team, assigning roles to each member, distributing appropriate documentation (design, technical, etc), giving out instructions on what is to be done, independent evaluation of the software, and finally, a discussion of issues and concerns that were identified during the process.
- **Pluralistic walkthroughs -** is an informal usability evaluation where a group of individuals, users, developers and designers, and usability experts walk through a scenario together and discuss any issues or concerns they might have. 
- **Feature inspections -** is an formal usability inspection method where a set of features used to accomplish a specific task are evaluated based on the given user story.
- **Consistency inspections -** is an informal usability inpsection method where designers from multiple projects inspect an interface based on how similiar it is to their own projects.
- **Standards inspections -** is an informal usability inspection method involving usability experts with knowledge of interface standards use their skills and experience to evaluate a UI based on its compliance with said standards.

[@nielsenHeuristicEvaluationUser1990; @mackUsabilityInspectionMethods1994].

### Usability Testing Methods



- **Hallway testing -**
- **Remote usability testing - **
- **Expert review -**
- **Automated expert review -**
- **A/B Testing -**
